>> Rodriguez: So text is awesome,
I love all text emails.
So I love beautiful topography,
I love simple designs and simple layouts.
But most the time you're gonna
wanna include some images in
your email campaigns to spice it up, to
create a connection with your subscribers,
to provide some additional information.
I love illustrations and animated gifs for
providing some lightweight education
inside of email campaigns.
But there's a couple of things we
wanna make sure that we account for
when using images in the email.
The first one is that it's great to
make images responsive by default and
there's a pretty easy way to do that
in email that's relatively new.
It's been around for
a couple of years as technique,
but it's an awesome way to not have
to target every single image and
then override something in like
a media query like that sizing.
The next thing is to always use
alternative text for emails.
So we'll look at accessibility after this
and why that's important, but you always
wanna include some sort of alt text for
the images in your email campaigns.
There's a couple of rules
that go along with that.
If you're using something like a
decorative image, like an icon or a logo,
then usually you want that
alternative text to just be md.
You still have that alt
attribute on the image tag,
but it's md because it doesn't
provide any additional value or
information outside of
that decorative element.
But then if you're using images that do
provide some of that context, some of that
additional information, then you wanna use
fairly descriptive alternative text that
describes what's happening in the image as
opposed to what that image happens to be.
So instead of saying,
illustration of something,
you would just describe
what that illustration is.
That helps cut down on repetition because
most screen readers will say image of and
then it'll read it at
the alternative text.
So you don't wanna say,
image of a picture of a person eating
a sandwich [LAUGH] or something like that.
And then you wanna make sure that you
stick to the stock standard image formats
because some of those newer
image formats like WebM, or
whatever crazy stuff that Google or
Apple are coming up with,
they're not gonna work
cross email campaigns.
So stick to jpg or png files, gif files,
you wouldn't really wanna use
a TIFF image because that's gonna be
massive and be a huge download for people.
But that's another thing, you wanna make
sure that you compress those images as
much as you can without losing quality.
You wanna make sure that you're not
cutting into people's mobile data plans or
causing really long delays
in downloading that image.
And this is especially important as you
start using like animated gifs in emails,
which is a super popular
technique in an email campaign.
But those gifs can get really heavy,
that file size can get huge.
So if somebody's opening on a mobile
device on a mobile connection,
then it could potentially take a really
long time for that image to download.
But those three things
are a great way to use images.
You wanna make them responsive, you wanna
use alternative text, and then you wanna
rely on those tried-and-true formats for
those images in your email campaign.
So when you talk about responsive images
the traditional way to do that on
the web side would be you have an image,
it's used in that image tag in HTML.
Then in your CSS, you just target
that image and set height to auto,
max-with to 100%.
Since a lot of email clients will strip
out that those embedded styles or
strip out that head of our document,
we can't totally rely on that.
It's been getting better as Gmail and
other clients are making updates, but
we wanna make sure that our images
are responsive by default without having
to rely on additional embedded CSS.
So the way to do that is to first set
a fixed width on that image tag for
Outlook so that it's properly
setting the size of that image.
We saw earlier that when we had that big,
giant Retina hero image,
for Outlook it was breaking
out of that 600 pixel
width because we're not doing anything
in account for that in Outlook.
And the way to do that is to use
the width attribute, that image tag.
So we'll see in an example here, we're
gonna set the width to 600 pixels for
Outlook.
But then for other clients, especially
mobile devices, we can use inline styles.
We can use max-width, min-width, and
width inline on that image tag, which will
force that fluidity, make those images
scale across those different device sizes,
those different container sizes.
So let's see how something
like that might work.
I'm gonna go back over
to the starter email.
So we have this hero image,
right now we're not doing anything fancy,
we just have the source and
then the alt attribute, it's empty.
But I'm actually going to
use one of my snippets here,
[INAUDIBLE] saved email image.
And you can see that we're doing a couple
of different things to this more
robust version of an image.
So we still have this alt attribute for
here,
I might say something like, in mailbox.
>> Rodriguez: So
we have a little bit more descriptive,
it's describing what that hero image is.
I'm not saying it's an illustration of red
mailbox because that's gonna be repetitive
for screen readers, but
I'm just describing what it happens to be.
If you're using images that
contain some sort of text in them,
which is really common for
those big, splashy hero images.
They might have an offer or
something like that.
You would wanna describe that
in your alternative text,
you want that textual equivalent of
whatever that image happens to be.
But for here, it just gonna describe that.
We have our source again.
But then for Outlook, we're setting this
with to 600, which will be 600 pixels.
We're including this border of zero,
which is important especially as we
start linking these images [INAUDIBLE].
Usually this will be linked out some
sort of landing page or an offer or
something like that.
Then we have this inline style, which
is setting this image to display block,
which is good for Outlook because
some versions of Outlook will,
by default, add some spacing around
images if they're not block level.
So if you display block it,
then it will just cut that out.
And then we're setting
the max-width to 100% so
that it doesn't break
out of any containers.
We're setting the min-width
here to 100 pixels,
that's just we don't really
want it any smaller than that.
But the chances of it getting smaller than
100 pixels on a mobile device is slim to
none, so it's just a nice default.
And then we're setting
the width to 100% so
that it naturally scales across
those different container sizes.
So let's open that back up in our browser,
and
you can see that now it's
listening to that container size.
It's rendering it properly,
it's not breaking it out of there.
I'm gonna add a little bit of
padding just above here so
it stands out a little bit more.
Oops.
>> Rodriguez: So yeah, it works well,
it's contained within that 600 pixel
structure of our email campaign.
And then most importantly though,
when we start scaling it down for
different device sizes, then it will flow
across those different device sizes.
So we can pop this open in Litmus and
see how that actually works.
>> Rodriguez: So
in all these email clients,
it'll just be properly constrained.
So that's where that response
of by default comes into play.
Apple Mail, works awesome.
But more importantly,
when we get into the Outlooks,
then it won't be blowing
out that giant container.
We're still getting this really wide email
layout because we aren't using tables or
doing anything specific for Outlook yet,
which we'll look at later this afternoon.
So yeah, all the Outlooks it's properly
size using that width attribute.
This is really important for Retina images
because we are using those larger images
and scaling them down to ensure that
works properly for the Outlooks.
But yeah, it's a nice hack to
use that max-width, width, and
min-width on any of those
images you need to scale down.
Importantly though, we're not doing
anything to this logo image because that's
already small enough that we don't really
need to worry about scaling that image
across different device sizes.
So we can just leave that width in there,
we can use the border radius,
and all that good stuff as we did before.
But we're not gonna do anything really
specific to that because we don't need
it to scale across different device sizes.
So yeah, we are doing all
that stuff in our images now.
We're using that HTML attribute for
Outlook to make sure that
width's constrained and that we
are using those inline styles to make sure
that it is responsive across device sizes.
That alternative text becomes into play
when we start looking at image blocking
in emails.
So most people have seen
images like this or
emails like this where that
email is all image-based.
It's everything in that email with
the exception of that little top preheader
text up there that says view in
browser and then probably the footer,
which probably has some super long lengthy
disclaimer that's completely unnecessary.
It's all an image.
So a lot of email clients will disable
those images by default largely for
security reasons.
We actually did a study a few
years ago because Gmail
changed how they handle images.
Previous to the change,
they were blocking images by default and
then they started caching all those images
in the email on their own servers and
then displaying those by default.
So by caching them on their own servers,
they could check and
make sure they're not a security risk,
and then it enabled those.
But it over-wrote your URLs and pointed
to Google server, it was a whole thing.
But we actually looked at before and
after, and we were able to determine
that about 43% of all email sent
had images blocked on Gmail.
And you extrapolate that out to all those
other email clients that have this similar
behavior.
That's potentially half your audience that
aren't seeing your emails if we're using
all image based emails.
So it's a huge problem even for
people that don't rely on something like
assistive technology like a screen reader.
They won't see your content and the
chances of them going into their settings
and enabling those images or
clicking on that little pop-up for
an image saying,
download this external content is slim.
They're not gonna take the time to
do that because they're busy people.
They have other things to get to and,
unless you have that brand relationship
that's really strong,
they don't care about your email so
they're just gonna delete it or
mark it as spam or something like that.
When it comes to people using
screen readers, if you're
sending all image based emails, they don't
really have any content to work with,
so we wanna make sure that we have as
much content for those users as possible.
And that's why it's important to
use live HTML text, that true text,
in our emails as opposed
to just image based emails.
And a design like this, it's relatively
simple to recreate in HTML and CSS.
The only thing that really needs to be
an image are these people over here,
those images of the models.
Whereas all of this is just text and
you could easily do that with HTML and
CSS, the buttons are easy enough to do.
A lot of the companies will push back and
say, you know,
we have brand guidelines, we have
a style guide that we have to follow.
And a lot of times they'll have typefaces
that are proprietary to them or
they might not work on web fonts or
something like that.
In those cases, you should still push
back and try to use good alternatives for
those fonts or those styles that work
cross email clients and are accessible.
But if you're using all images or you
have to rely on images, then provide that
descriptive alt text because something
like your URL isn't gonna help people out.
They could very easily have the Handbag
and Shoe Shop, visit the shop or
whatever that text is as the alternative
text for those images so
that when people don't see it or
if people are using screen readers,
they know exactly what
they're getting into.
They can get that value out
of your email campaign.